# dat protocol Community communication 

03 Jan 2019

## People

* Diego Paez (@dpaez)
* Yoshua Wuyts  (@yoshuawuyts)
* Alexander Cobleigh (@cblgh)
* Paul Frazee (@pfrazee)
* Isa
* Franco
* Eduardo Quenallata
* Isak
* among others...

## Agenda

* Catching up

## Meeting Notes

* Yoshua introduces himself, he mention that is currently working on [datrs](https://github.com/datrs) a rust implementation of the Dat protocol. Help is welcome on that project :). He is also writing [The Dat Protocol](https://datprotocol.github.io/book/ch00-00-introduction.html) an online book that you can use to learn about Dat protocol and how to implement it in other languages.
* Alex introduces himself. He is one of the collaborators behind [cabal](https://cabal-club.github.io/). He had the chance to be part of the _in-person_ (offline) Dat comm-comm meetings held at the 35c3 (CCC) event. Alex also mention he is working on [paperslip](https://github.com/cblgh/paperslip).
* Isak asks about why don't we use TCP instead of webrtc, for example. 
* Discussion about better alternatives to webrtc.
  * Yosh mention a Firefox [project](https://github.com/mozilla/libdweb) that works as an extension as better alternative to webrtc
  * Paul mentions something about some work from browsers vendors to have a TCP/UDP stack on the browser. Similar to libdweb. But it is at early stage.
  * Yosh mentions interest on webrtc 2.0 (webrt over quic)
  * Paul mentions [hyperswarm](https://github.com/hyperswarm)
  * Yosh also mention what a cool idea/project would be to have a WASM interface for libdweb.
* Discussion about Dat resources for non-developers.
  * Alex asks if anyone know about good resources for non-developers.
  * Yosh mentions https://vtduncan.github.io/how-dat-works/
  * Alex mentions [try-dat](https://try-dat.com/) project. It is a bit old but we think could be a good idea try to update the resource. Also even maybe translate it. A possible revamp repo is: https://github.com/datproject/try-dat-temp (we can contribute there).
* Discussion about identity on the web of trust.
  * Paul tell us about the web of trust and some work he is doing behind beaker. One of their concerns is related to identity management in the web of trust. He also mention some identity issues on fritter.
  * Alex mentions keybase.io, which is a great solution but it is centralized.
  * Alex also mentions [darkcrystal](https://darkcrystal.pw/). A super interesting project that can be seen as a better alternative to keybase.
  * Paul also mentions some open questions/problems. Like how one can handle a recovery process for a PK. Or when do I trust if a key has changed? How an user can known if a key has changed? How can one be sure of this on a P2P arquitecture. How we should handle a topic like phising on the web of trust.
  * Paul also mentions some lessons learned from [scuttlebutt](https://www.scuttlebutt.nz/) like how important is key rotation.

## ACTION ITEMS

* We agree that it would be helpful to have a place where we can showcase modules and apps built with Dat. Alex suggest that we can re-use https://dat.land/. There is a [PR](https://github.com/dat-land/website/issues/5) and Diego will be working on it.
