# dat protocol Community communication 

17 Jan 2019

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* Harry (@lachenmayer)  
* Duncan (@vtduncan)
* Martin (@tinchoz49)
* Ranger Mauve (@RangerMauve)
* among others...

## Agenda

* Revisit previous action items
* Catching up!

## Meeting Notes

* Diego starts introducing the comm-comm meeting #5. Main goal is to hanging up and talk about Dat for 1hr. It is an excellent opportunity to share what you are being doing with Dat recently, share past experiences and if your are currently working on some product using Dat, how was your experience doing that. All those stories are super important for the comm-comm and everyone is welcome.
* Harry introduces himself. Harry has been working mostly with startups and now he is working on a new project where its developing a design patter for privately sharing data in smalls groups.
* Duncan introduces himself. Duncan is the creator of ["How Dat Works"](https://datprotocol.github.io/how-dat-works/) an online resource for learning about the Dat protocol. He mentions that "How Dat Works" is about to leave _WIP status_ an get the "v1 release" pretty soon. Feedback is welcome.
* Martin introduces himself. He is working for [GEUT](https://github.com/geut/). Martin mentions an idea about combining Apollo Link with Dat. He plans to start working on it on these days.
* Harry has been working on a [resource](https://github.com/lachenmayer/hyperdb-authorization-guide) for learning about authorization on Dat (mostly using hyperdb).
* Dat-land website
  * Diego mentions a recent update via a PR to the [dat.land](https://dat.land/) website and encourage others to do the same and add their modules/guides/apps/etc to it. [Repo](https://github.com/dat-land/website).
* Discussion about how to create bridges between centralized & decentralized worlds.
  * Diego starts talking about the topic and asks if anyone has been thinking about it. He put it this way, how can we preserve the inherent characteristics of a decentralized system such as "the user owns their data" while interacting with a centralized service (internet)?  
  * Harry mentions something about a Random Access Keychain that can be used in similar situations.
  * Martin mentions the NOISE protocol.
  * Duncan says that maybe the bridge can be more like a _window_ instead showing a bit of what happens inside a decentralized network and thus attracting more audience into it. 
  * Harry mentions interest on the "mobile + Dat" development (i.e: manyverse and similar apps). He would like to know more about what are the thought parts of developing a Dat app on the mobile world.
  * Harry also mentions Dat-gateway and how important is for the ecosystem.
  * Ranger Mauve joins and adds more info about the history of Dat-gateway. Ranger mentions that the original implementation was made by Paul Frazee and then the user **garbados** [continues the work](https://github.com/garbados/dat-gateway) adding more features but on a forked version. Ranger thinks this one is the version published to npm. He also worked on its own version of [Dat-gateway](https://github.com/RangerMauve/dat-gateway) adding websockets supports into it.
  * Harry mentions [dat-fox](https://github.com/sammacbeth/dat-fox). A firefox extension which runs a slightly modified Dat-gateway in order to provide a bridge to the Dat network.
  * Ranger mentions [dat-webext](https://github.com/sammacbeth/dat-webext) as a better alternative to dat-fox. Both extensions aim to create a bridge to the Dat network. 
  * Ranger adds some thoughts to this point, he does not think the [libdweb](https://github.com/mozilla/libdweb) extension approach is the best way to bridge with the Dat world, mostly because the libdweb project is not a standard nor is implemented by other browsers vendors. It is more like an experiment.  
* Discussion about "small groups" & mobile 
  * Duncan moves the conversation towards the mobile world and how current usage patterns and sync issues are a challenge that can led to a poor UX.
  * Harry mention something about the app he is working on and how can help to this situation. He also introduces the idea of sharing with "small groups" and the benefits around that.
  * He also tell us about the design pattern that he is imaging for his app. The result is similar to what one can do using hyperdb but with _role_ support on top of it. He is planning to launch this pretty soon.
  * Martin mentions the work by noffle on [multifeed](https://github.com/noffle/multifeed) as a similar idea.
  * The group shows interest around a layer on top of hyperdb that add support to roles and removal capabilities. 
  * Ranger mentions that hypercore is not good for removal stuff. He shows interest on [mutable-torrents](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mutable-webtorrent) and would like to experiment more on that direction.

