# dat protocol Community communication 

31 Jan 2019

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* Franz (@frando)
* Joe Hand (@joehand)  
* Karissa (@karissa)
* Ranger Mauve (@RangerMauve)
* Substack (@substack)
* Martin (@tinchoz49)
* among others...

## Agenda

* No previous action items
* Catching up!

## Meeting Notes

* Diego starts introducing the comm-comm meeting #7. Main goal is to hanging out and talk about Dat for 1hr. It is an excellent opportunity to share what you are being doing with Dat recently, share past experiences and if your are currently working on some product using Dat, how was your experience doing that. All those stories are super important for the comm-comm and everyone is welcome.
* Franz introduces himself. He told us about some progress on one of their projects, called [Archipel](https://github.com/arso-project/archipel). They are using the latest multi-writer branch of hyperdrive to create an app similar to Dat Desktop. 
* Diego asked if it was the branch where Jim Pick was working on. Franz said that they were using a merge between that and the official one from Mafintosh. He had patches on top of Jim Pick branch and had to move them to back to mafintosh's branch
* multiwriter update
  * Karissa points that Andrew Osh will be working on it this year. They got a Samsung grant for it.  
* Karissa update
  * Coming on 10hrs/week to work on fundraising and communication stuff. Trying to help with incoming grants that could potentially happen, make sure they get done.
  * Manage MOSS grant - user research on documentation, etc.
  * Also working on Mapeo (Digital Democracy Project) - most of time spend on that. Mapping application run on hypercore.
* Ranger Update
  * Ranger Mauve says hi. He was trying to figuring out decentralized web / p2p full time. Related to that, he shares that soon, he will start working on a project about community-run live streams distributed over the P2P web. This is a project from an Ottawa based company. Ranger plans to build off [DatCast](https://github.com/datcast) and let communities run live video feed that is totally p2p. 
* Dat Community Work (karissa)
  * Karissa discussing messaging. How Dat worked originally on the research side, then changed to protocol work. But messaging hasn't caught up with the community.
  * Merging Dat project with Dat protocol. What is the difference? 
  * Any initial thoughts?
    * Dat Project/Dat protocol is a little confusing. Thought it was the same thing but datprotocol.com was the same thing but different people leading it.
    * Initial decision was about allowing external organizations leadership positions in the protocol work.
  * On the same line, Franz mentions that he had started using the **hyperstack** term when talking about projects built using Dat modules, like hypercore/hyperdb. He likes this new term because gives him more flexibility. For example, sometimes on the app you are building the FS part is important, sometime is not.  
  * Dat is one product based on hyperstack and there are others as well.
  * formal connection between these different projects
  * it could be like the hyperstack group or consortium.
  * Ranger asks, how about a name change for dat? which is scary. In order to avoid some confusion.
  * Started referring to collection as hyperstack.
  * Hard to say this project "uses Dat"
  * If something is based on hypercore, does that mean it uses Dat?
  * What does "Dat" refer to, Beaker, protocol, CLI, etc. but also hypercore.
  * Hyper-stack clarifies it a bit about what you are talking about.
  * "Dat" is easy to misinterpret and can be hard to find, etc.
  * "Dat" is on product based on hyper-stack but there are others as well.
    * In that sense, Hyperstack group could provide more organization around hyperstack
* Comm-Comm Question
  * Wasn't there a thing organized by CS&S that had regular call? Is the comm-comm meeting subsuming that?
    * Comm-comm is more focused on Dat & hyper things. More community-oriented.
    * CS&S community call is broadly focused on the CS&S community, which is broader than Dat.
    * (Joe hopes both will continue!)
* Dat-js
  * Ranger: 
    * no idea what is going with Internet Archive part
    * Trying to get Dat to work in regular browser, how do you get replication to work. Looking at p2p in browsers. WebRTC data channels suck if you want a lot of them.
    * hyperdrive doesn't care how you replicate it
    * Looked at other projects like dat-gateway, dat-daemon
    * Websocket to replicate over Dat. Add a websocket so you could replicate on a dat gateway, similar to the IPFS gateway.
    * "I want all websites that work in Beaker to work over the gateway". Requires a subdomain, replicate archive on client side if internet connection goes off.
  * Karissa on IA dweb project:
    * Decentralized copy of internet archive site
    * First search decentralized web for an item before going to regular archive (over http)
    * Need help from Dat-community to build server to connect IA to get data and connect to JavaScript client
    * Excited about mutability of Dat
    * Roadblock: don't want to have to pre-scan all the data and chunk it. That would take a long time!
        * On other protocols: peer requests file from peer, peer says they have it, then go to p2p protocol. This doesn't align with current implementation of hyperdrive.
    * Interest in funding more of the JavaScript client and work on more dynamic file loading.
* About hype and founding
  * Ranger likes Dat about community and approach but driven more by research, people picking up tech. Whereas IPFS has a different focus. People are right when they say Dat is hard to get working in the browser, so that work is quick to stall.
    * Hard to be motivated to do this type of work on the side.
    * Feel that it is lacking in funding for these more-infrastructure type work.
    * Find Dat doesn't show up as much as the hyped projects.
    * Would it make sense for Dat project to spread the word? Teach people about Dat.
  * Substack shares the work of Mikeal Rogers on [proto.school](https://proto.school/#/) to help people learn about p2p protocols. Could start to add Dat-related work to that. :cool:
* Substack update
  * [Peermaps](https://peermaps.org/) has got funding from Samsung Next grant. peermaps.org has a new site and roadmap. Similar but different to work done with Digital Democracy and Mapeo. Oriented towards getting all of PlanetOSM in a p2p database based on Dat. Either using hypercore or hyperdb or similar idea using prefix tries.
* Franz mentions they applied for funding a decentralized search engine based on Dat. He will keep us to date with progress on that.
* Dat on Mobile
  * [Bunsen Browser](https://github.com/bunsenbrowser): would be really cool to get people helping out on mobile. Beaker will have smaller user base. Not viable to install browser on laptop when use case is closer to mobile.
    * Ranger would like to have more people collaborating on that.
* Karissa update on grant proposal in pipeline:
    * Researchers using Dat want to get a better sense of data being used and where it is stored.
    * Proposal for a user-interface around helping understand where data is.
    * Trying to get funded which would help fund other work on protocol and other apps.
    * Along the lines of the IPFS daemon with web interface.
    * Substack - sounds useful for peermaps. Know health of something if all clients are in sparse mode and clients only have parts of it.
      * Ways for people to volunteer resources for storage to make sure data is all seeded. Cheap $5/month vps node cannot store all of it. Tools to self-organize to host big datasets.
* Diego will be working on small article on combining web application development with Dat. Has a little experiment that works well, will publish along with article. Would like a little review.
* **Upcoming Meetings:**
  * datnight.org (Portland)
  * data terra nemo with Dat on May in Berlin. 

