# Dat comm-comm meeting notes

14 Mar 2019

## People

- RangerMauve
- Martin (tinchoz49)
- Rich (wireline)
- Frando (Archipel)
- Jim Pick
- vipyne (ARA)
- Joseph (ARA)
- perguth
- and many others

## Agenda

According to previous item introduced in meeting [#11](meeting-notes/11-28February2019.md) there was some work around getting an "official" signalhub/gateway. Martin (@tinchoz49) and Mauve (@RangerMauve) were collaborating on different projects. You can follow the conversation here: https://github.com/datproject/discussions/issues/86#issuecomment-470285910

## Meeting Notes

- ...? (I miss the intro)
- Frando was talking about how they are using Dat with Archipel.
- Companies approach to creating web apps using Dat: GEUT story.
- Rich (wireline) asks about Edcon participation.
- Frando mentions participation in DTN conf. https://dtn.is/
- Questions about founding process for Dat
    - Mauve mentions that [code for science and society](https://codeforscience.org/) is one of the _authorities_ and if you want to support Dat that is a good place to start the conversation (also [Karissa](https://github.com/karissa) is the that you should reach)
    - Frando mentions that CS&S is not the only way to support Dat.
    - The idea is to support a company that can do some work using the Dat stack so both benefit. The company can collaborate on Dat-related open source projects.
- vipyne introduces ARA (https://github.com/AraBlocks). Shares a resource about ARA and DID: https://github.com/arablocks/ara-identity
- Mauve asks about hyperdrive usage? if there are projects using this directly or they are using hypercores?
    - ARA and Archipel are using hyperdrive.
    - Frando mentions interest in fuse support on hyperdrive.
- Mauve mentions interest in Rust + wasm support for Dat and how that can improve performance.
- Per Guth asks about how to download an dat archive from a webapp point of view.
    - Mauve mentions that the browser is a constrained "box", there is no direct access to UDP sockets nor FS methods. So there is a need to use gateways and other strategies to deal with this. You can check dat-js (https://github.com/datproject/dat-js) for more info.

## Action Items

- According to previous conversations held in past comm-comm meetings we can found some _pattern_ in requirements from the community or in other words some _nice-to-have_ things from a developer point of view. These are summarized in [this comment](https://github.com/dat-land/comm-comm/issues/38#issuecomment-473017953) from Mauve. We can start some work around that.
