# Dat comm-comm meeting notes

25 Apr 2019

## People

- Georgiy (@rangermauve, dat team, working on dat-store, then dat-sdk)
- Diego (@dpaez, comm-comm team, [GEUT](geutstdio.com))
- Kevin Faaborg (@zootella, working on [Ara](https://ara.one))
- Ross Schulman (@rossschulman, @ross@social.rbs.io, @rschulman:westwork.org, New America's Open Technology Institute)
- Mark Beasley
- L ([Louis](https://louis.center/), will be helping organizing things for dtn related events)
- Karissa (@karissa, dat team, working on the dat meetup happening on May, close to DTN conf.)
- Paul Frazee (@pfrazee, working on beaker)
- Joe Hand (@joehand, dat team, working on dat-cli/node these days)
- Ilya Kreymer (working on webrecorder tool for webarchive, interested in using dat for webarchive)
- jin (working on webxr stuff)
- Paolo (@heapwolf, working on datcxx port)
- _others_

## Agenda

- According to previous items from meeting [#17](meeting-notes/17-11April2019.md) there was some progress regarding writing a post with latest updates about dat-js and web-related modules. The post was written by @rangermauve who was working closely on those modules.
- There is still room for improvement on the docs side, specifically a visual guide for newcomers to Dat would be nice to have.

## Meeting

- DTN related events. Karissa has been working on that. Renting a space (called [Trust](https://trust.support/)). There will be a public event on Sunday (afternoon?). Any ideas for the event are welcomed!. Louis will be helping.
    - Louis has some experience with P2P related events on Berlin.
    - About the space: open canvas space, 2 floors, recording support, catering OK. Capacity: 80/85 people.
    - Will be nice to have feedback from the community about the events that we can have on Sunday.
    - trust space is a place commonly visited for developers and non-developers/non-technical but curious audience. (according to previous events, Louis mentioned)
    - target audience?
    - event style? people can propose a talk? add session ideas and share them on the website
    - Create a github issue where we can share/track this for next Friday -> https://github.com/datproject/organization/issues/4
    - There is this option of having 2 spaces, one with sessions (can be recorded) the other with technical talks by core team members
    - Do we need a RSVP? Yes
    - Comment or questions about the event you can ping Karissa (irc: okdistribute).
    - Paolo offers help in Berlin: anyone need help navigating berlin hit me up for help https://twitter.com/heapwolf
- VR/AR & Dat
    - Georgiy is working with VR on the web.
    - There is a chance to use P2P to remove the walled gardens around VR.
    - How to improve webVR content distribution using Dat.
    - Maybe we can have a session about webvr & dat on DTN public event.
    - The folks at matrix.org want to work on VR on their protocol as well, though I don't think they have had the time lately to focus on it.
    - jin shares some screens about their progress:
        - https://i.imgur.com/KaFppCy.png
        - https://i.imgur.com/WD9tKyz.png
        - https://i.imgur.com/2upqrdG.jpg (super cool graphics)
        - https://i.imgur.com/OpHXqPr.jpg
        - https://i.imgur.com/jWmvOS6.jpg
- [NEWS] Dat newsletter is coming: https://github.com/datproject/newsletter
    - 1st Dat newsletter (history): https://mailchi.mp/881088ed65b0/dat-news-announcements-three-protocols-and-a-future-of-the-decentralized-internet-comm-comm-and-more
- [UPDATE] Check out https://github.com/datproject/planning/ for Dat related news
    - Some interesting topics:
    - https://github.com/datproject/planning/issues
    - https://github.com/datproject/planning/issues/7
    - https://github.com/datproject/planning/issues/8
- Paolo has been working on a C++ port of Dat: https://github.com/datcxx
    - Inspired by yosh work on rust port.
    - Paolo is following closely the JS implementation.
    - To do that he has building is own dependency manager (!)
        - It's built with node
    - Feedback is **super welcome!!**
    - He is looking to have a demo working soon. Maybe for DTN or later.
    - Least transparent part of the protocol implementation?
        - streaming related functions
        - Paolo found some bugs just by reading the code while doing the port.
- Multiwritter news (Paul updates)
    - he is planning to use it as a dependency manager for beaker
    - _union mounting_ (multiple dats in one folder)
- dat-sdk
    - rangermauve will be working on this next.
    - a set of useful/important modules from the dat ecosystem.
    - a good place for group documentation efforts.
- Ilya shared: https://github.com/webrecorder/dat-share

